Hi and welcome to the lecture on Shiny.
My name is Brian Caffo.
Shiny is really the cornerstone of this
class because it's the tool that we're
going to use to develop data products.
So Shiny is,
let me advance the slide here.
Shiny is a web development framework in R.
And the nice thing is you
only really need to know R.
You can use R in the back end, use R
to actually write the user interface.
And you don't need to know the standard
tools like JavaScript, HTML, and so on.
But I'll talk a little
bit more about that.
Let me just talk about Shiny
more broadly first and
then we'll get more into the details.
So broadly, Shiny has been more of
a revolution among those data scientists
that really specialize in R and
focus on developing algorithms,
and analysis, and that component.
Of course, if you work in web development
proper and that's the direction you're
coming to data science from, then you
probably have a different tool set.
You probably wouldn't elect to use
Shiny because you already have so
many tools already at your disposal.
But if you come from this other end,
then Shiny is a great way to
prototype potential data products.
It's a great way to create
small data products
that you would deploy if
you're a smaller organization.
Or if you're a big organization, you might
create something as a prototype, and
then send it off to people with these
other skills that would maybe convert
the R code to some compiled language,
write a super nice JavaScript front-end,
and have a bunch of fancy HTML.
But the nice part about Shiny
is we do everything in R.
We create the GUI in R, the algorithms and
everything else that are powering
it in terms of the data science
part is all written in R and so on.
And your time to create a data
product is completely minimized.
So Shiny is made by R Studio,
it's free, it's just an R package.
What might cost you is you have
to host Shiny on a server, right?
So, it's a web development framework.
You need to actually have a web server
that is not only going to serve up the web
pages but is also going to call R in
the back end to call your algorithms, or
your models, or whatever.
So Shiny itself is free and
open-source, I think it's open-source.
But the hosting might cost you, so
RStudio has this free hosting service,
and that's what we're going to use for
the class.
And you can run your smaller applications
through RStudio's free hosting service.
The other two options you have at your
disposal would be to create your own
server, which you could run off of AWS or
something like that, Amazon AWS.
Or you could do something
like Shiny's paid service.
The other thing you can do is you create
Shiny apps locally, and you test and
debug them locally.
You can give a Shiny app to another person
who uses RStudio, and they can use it in
the web browser just like, I'm sorry,
in RStudio just like you do.
And so, if portability at
that level is what you need,
then you don't actually
need the web server part.
But really, the interesting component
about this is making a web server that
anyone can use that displays
your data analysis,
or your prediction algorithm,
or what have you.
And Shiny gives you a pretty
easy way to do that.
So we'll talk later on
more about the server and
how to use shinyapps.io, which is going to
be the free server we use in this class.
And so,
today we're just going to get you started.
We're going to go from zero
up to having a running little
web server with running R as the back end.
Okay, so some mild prerequisites.
Like I said, you do everything in R,
but I think it would be kind
of hard to do this without
knowledge of a little bit of HTML.
CSS and JavaScript I actually think you
don't need to know any of to do Shiny.
But a little bit of HTML just to
give you some of the basics of what
the commands in R are actually doing,
that would be super useful.
And we're not going to teach that here.
There's a million HTML
tutorials on the Internet.
Just find any, create a basic web page,
learn what some of
the basic commands are and the format
of them, and that's all you need.
Shiny uses this Bootstrap package,
which has no relations to the statistics
bootstrap, which looks nice and
I think it renders well.
It's the folks at Twitter came up with it.
So it creates,
it has a nice set of buttons and
things like that that I think resize
correctly hen you have your page
rendered on a small device like a phone or
on a big screen as well.
So they've thought through that.
I think Bootstrap, if you don't know
a lot about that kind of web development,
then just stick with the Bootstrap themes.
And so again, I just give you some more
tutorials if you want to learn about
the three core components of at least
the front end of the kind of applications
we're going to be developing.
HTML, CSS will give you the style, and
JavaScript is what gives
you all the interactivity.
I'm giving you some tutorials there.
Most importantly, do some of the HTML one.
Okay, so getting started, you got to
install Shiny, install.packages("shiny").
And then whenever you get it working with
Shiny, you gotta make sure it's loaded up,
so library(shiny).
And then there's a,
before you even start this,
you might even consider the official
Shiny tutorial at RStudio.
And mostly this lecture is
walking through that tutorial.
Okay, so I'm going to start going through
some code demonstrations here in a minute,
but let me just go through
the basics really quick.
What you need for
a Shiny project is you need ui.R,
a file called ui.R, and
a file called server.R.
So ui gives you the user interface, and
it'll determine how your app looks and
server.R will control what your app does.
Okay?
Now I'm going to switch over and
start doing some code demonstrations and
so stay tuned